{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Light;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;
\red17\green121\blue47;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;
\cssrgb\c1176\c53725\c23922;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs43\fsmilli21600 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \uc0\u55358 \u56831 \'a0
\f1\b CASE STUDY
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 Arka Energy Ltd v Meridian Capital Ltd
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec3 Arka Energy Ltd (\'93Arka\'94) is a public company incorporated in\'a0
\f1\b India
\f0\b0 \'a0in 2015. The company specialises in advanced lithium battery storage systems used in large-scale solar energy projects. Arka has four directors:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Rohan Mehta \'96 Managing Director\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Kavita Rao \'96 Technical Director\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Suresh Iyer \'96 Non-Executive Director\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Ananya Singh \'96 Independent Director\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 The company secretary is Neha Kapoor.\
Rohan Mehta is widely recognised as the public face of Arka. He regularly represents the company at international energy forums and is typically the primary contact for investors and commercial partners.\
Internally, Arka\'92s board had resolved that Rohan\'92s authority to enter into contracts was limited to INR 25 million (approximately AUD 500,000). Any agreement exceeding this amount required prior board approval and execution by two directors or one director and the company secretary. This restriction is contained in the company\'92s constitution but was not publicly disclosed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs43\fsmilli21600 \cf0 \strokec3 The Transaction
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Meridian Capital Ltd (\'93Meridian\'94) is a public company incorporated in\'a0
\f1\b Western Australia
\f0\b0 , specialising in infrastructure and renewable energy investments. Meridian has three directors:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 James Whitaker \'96 Executive Chairman\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Andrew Collins \'96 Managing Director\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Rebecca Hughes \'96 Non-Executive Director\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 In early 2024, Meridian approached Arka after Rohan presented at a renewable energy conference in Perth. During his presentation, Rohan stated that he \'93leads all strategic partnerships and commercial negotiations for Arka\'92s international expansion.\'94\
Following the conference, Meridian\'92s Managing Director, Andrew Collins, commenced negotiations directly with Rohan regarding a proposed investment to develop solar farm projects in Western Australia, using Arka\'92s battery storage systems.\
Several meetings were held in Perth, followed by email exchanges. Rohan emphasised that Arka operated with a \'93lean approval structure\'94 that allowed it to \'93move quickly on strategic opportunities.\'94\
During negotiations, Meridian\'92s legal advisor asked whether board approval would be required for the proposed deal. Rohan replied via email:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \'93All internal approvals are standard and will be taken care of. You can proceed on the basis that I have full authority.\'94\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 After several rounds of negotiation, Rohan sent Meridian a\'a0
\f1\b Heads of Agreement
\f0\b0 \'a0granting Meridian exclusive rights to deploy Arka\'92s battery systems across specified solar farm sites in Western Australia for a period of 10 years.\
The Heads of Agreement expressly provided that:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \'93This agreement is governed by the law of Western Australia.\'94\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 The document was executed using\'a0
\f1\b DocuSign
\f0\b0 , with only Rohan\'92s digital signature appearing on behalf of Arka. No second director or company secretary signed the document.\
The agreed upfront investment was\'a0
\f1\b AUD 1.5 million
\f0\b0 .\
Meridian transferred the funds to an account specified by Rohan labelled:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \'93Arka Energy \'96 Projects Account\'94\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 This account differed slightly from Arka\'92s usual corporate account name. Meridian\'92s finance team noted the difference but accepted Rohan\'92s explanation that it was a \'93designated account for international project transactions.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs43\fsmilli21600 \cf0 \strokec3 Events After Execution
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Two weeks later, Meridian issued a public announcement regarding its partnership with Arka.\
Kavita Rao and the other directors of Arka first became aware of the arrangement through this announcement. Kavita immediately contacted Neha Kapoor, who confirmed that she had seen a draft of the Heads of Agreement but had not been informed that it had been finalised or executed.\
An urgent board meeting was convened. The board resolved that:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Rohan had exceeded his authority\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 No board approval had been granted\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 The execution did not comply with the company\'92s constitutional requirements\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Arka\'92s lawyers subsequently wrote to Meridian stating that:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 the Heads of Agreement was unauthorised and unenforceable\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 the company was prepared to refund the AUD 1.5 million, subject to deductions for administrative costs\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 Meridian rejected this position.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs43\fsmilli21600 \cf0 \strokec3 Instruction
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Meridian Capital Ltd has instructed your firm,\'a0
\f1\b Lawson & Kim Corporate Lawyers
\f0\b0 , to advise them on their legal position and prospects of enforcing the Heads of Agreement against Arka Energy Ltd.\
Prepare a\'a0
\f1\b professional Memorandum of Advice
\f0\b0 \'a0for Meridian Capital Ltd.\
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf5 \strokec5 Memorandum of Advice: Structure and Drafting Guide
\f0\b0\fs32 \cf0 \strokec3 \
(Note: This advice may be communicated in alternative formats such as an email or formal letter depending on client requirements.)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 \strokec3 To: [Client Name]\
From: [Your Name / Firm]\
Date: [Insert Date]\
Re: [Brief Description of Matter]\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 \uc0\u55357 \u56590  Annotation:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Use a clear, neutral description of the matter.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Do not pre-empt the legal conclusion in the heading.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\fs43\fsmilli21600 \cf0 \strokec3 Issue\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Identify the key question or questions that require determination.\
\uc0\u55357 \u56590  Annotation:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Frame the issue as a legal question.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Keep it precise and focused.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Avoid unnecessary background or conclusions.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\fs43\fsmilli21600 \cf0 Relevant Considerations\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Set out the applicable legal principles at a high level.\
\uc0\u55357 \u56590  Annotation:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Identify the governing principles or framework.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Keep this section concise and structured.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Explain the law in a way that a commercial client who is not legally trained can understand.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Avoid excessive doctrinal detail or technical language without explanation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\fs43\fsmilli21600 \cf0 Application\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Apply the relevant legal principles to the facts.\
\uc0\u55357 \u56590  Annotation:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 This is the core analytical section.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Clearly connect facts to legal principles.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Use plain English drafting wherever possible.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Do not merely restate facts or law without linking them.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\fs43\fsmilli21600 \cf0 Further Considerations\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Address any additional issues that may affect the outcome.\
\uc0\u55357 \u56590  Annotation:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Include secondary or alternative considerations where relevant.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Be selective and include only matters that add value to the client\'92s position.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Avoid exploring irrelevant or speculative issues.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\fs43\fsmilli21600 \cf0 Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Provide a direct answer to the issue or issues identified.\
\uc0\u55357 \u56590  Annotation:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Be clear, concise, and decisive.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Ensure the conclusion follows logically from your analysis.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Do not introduce new reasoning here.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\fs43\fsmilli21600 \cf0 Recommendations\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Outline practical next steps for the client.\
\uc0\u55357 \u56590  Annotation:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Provide actionable, commercially sensible advice.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Focus on what the client should do next.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Avoid purely theoretical suggestions.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\fs43\fsmilli21600 \cf0 Professional and Academic Expectations\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 The law must be explained clearly and accessibly, recognising that the client is a layperson in a commercial setting.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Use plain English drafting while maintaining legal accuracy.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Be mindful that time is important in a commercial context. Your client is being billed, so avoid unnecessary or irrelevant discussion.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Focus only on matters that are material to the client\'92s issue, consistent with the ethical obligations of legal practice.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 This is both a practical and academic assessment.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 You must still reference appropriately.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Support your analysis with relevant legal authority.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 Maintain professional presentation standards.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\fs43\fsmilli21600 \cf0 What This Is Not\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 This is not a template to copy word for word.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 This is not a substitute for legal analysis.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb2 This is not indicative of the specific issues in your problem question.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\fs43\fsmilli21600 \cf0 Final Note\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Write so your client understands, analyse so your marker is convinced.\
}